Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I'm going to provide a solution to our previous challenge which demonstrate the implementation
of the facade pattern.
I'm going to open up an existing project that we already had that already created that will have our
entire structure and hierarchies created.
I've already created this.
So this is just going to be called facade solution
and right now it just contains our hierarchy it contains our restaurants and our menus our hotel on
our menus.
So they'll tell interface remember they'll tell interface implements to get the menus.
And each one of the restaurants have a get menus and then we have the menus interface that has specific
menus that are implemented and just part coding bring out information for testing.
Really not too complicated here but right now a client in this subsystem isn't overly complicated but
right now a client does have to create an instance of a specific restaurant.
And then from a specific restaurant they have to request getting the menus for a specific menu.
So it can be a little more simplified it's not the best example in the world because it's not overly
complicated but it is is better.
We can't make it a little cleaner.
So let's go ahead and start and create the facade on the facade as it's going to be named the hotel
keeper.
So we're just going to say hotel keeper.
Remember this class is completely independent of any of the subsystem classes so it's just a separate
class really.
You can use it if you want to.
If you don't you can use the interface on this you're going to have three methods to make the client's
life easier.
It's going to have a get veg menu getting on veg menu and a get veg non menu or get veg get both menu
something similar to that.
So public veg menu get veg menu.
And this is going to create an instance of a veg restaurant because that's where the menu is.
It's going to need that V and it's going to say new veg restaurant.
And then we're going to have to get the menu and return the menu so we have to create a sense of a menu
going to say vegetarian menu equals where we have to cast veggie menu that VDI get feed.
Get menus and then I'm going to return the veg menu.
So it's pretty straightforward.
It's not overly complex but it does simplify things you can see that you have to create a restaurant.
You have to create a menu and you have to get the menu and so forth.
So that simplifies things a bit for the veg menu we have to do the same for the not veg menu.
So it's gonna be very similar except different instances and different methods are going to be invoked.
So here was say non veggie menu
and this will actually say get non veg menu.
This will create a non veg restaurant
and a non veg restaurant.
And the menu will be different non veg menu the instance should also be different.
And this is going to need to be casted and we're just going to say v docket menus and this is going
to return our non veg menu pretty straightforward.
We also need to do it for both menus.
So we're gonna say get veg non menu so both get veggie and get non.
This is going to return a both menu.
Not the greatest name but it will suffice.
So get veg non menu and this is going to create a veggie non both restaurant
and it's also going to create a both menu
and it's going to call VDI get menus and it's going to return both menu.
So this is our facade a little bit simpler.
The client will be able to call the method directly to get menus that they're interested in.
So let's create a client say new Java class or going to see client and this needs to have a main method.
I mean
this is going to need to create the facade the hotel keeper.
We'll just call them keeper and we'll see a new hotel keeper and then we can get the menus that we want
by just using the keeper so we can return a veg menu by calling keeper to get veg menu.
We can get a non veg menu by simply calling keeper dog get not veg menu and we can get both menus by
just saying keeper get non veg menu.
So in this way the implementation incentive sensitive side the client is given just one interface the
facade and it can access it only that way it hides all the complexities and we want to make sure I didn't
screw this up our menus are both
so keep her dark.
Get non veg menu has to be get veg non menu.
That's that's what happens when you have bad naming conventions.
There we go.
Was there any turning the right instant so if we build this and run it we'll just see some basic output
for instance is being created and returned
and you just notice that all sounds not right we're creating a non veg menu all three times.
So we'll have to modify something here that's most likely cause my constructors have misinformation
in the output I would imagine that would be my help.
They all say creating an on veg menu.
So that's a mistake.
You should be creating a veg menu.
You may have to correct this in the solution creating a veg or I'll update that creating a veg menu
and menu items and veg menu and creating a creating both a non and veg Menu menu items and both veg
and that menu.
Now let's try this again.
And now we have three different types of menus created have to have the right output displayed for the
instances that are created.
So I hope this helped your understanding with the facade.
If you have any questions please ask in the Q and A otherwise onto the next design pattern.
Thank you.